Readme.md, before:

# SPEECH-CONDITIONED FACE GENERATION USING GENERATIVE ADVERSARIAL NETWORKS

## Intoduction

**Note:** This repository holds my final year and dissertation project during my time at the Image Processing Group (<em>Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya</em>). To obtain a more updated code, you can visit the official repo [here](https://github.com/imatge-upc/wav2pix).

Speech is a rich biometric signal that contains information about the identity, gender and emotional state of the speaker. In this work, we explore its potential to generate face images of a speaker by conditioning a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) with raw speech input. We propose a deep neural network that is trained from scratch in an end-to-end fashion, generating a face directly from the raw speech waveform without any additional identity information (e.g reference image or one-hot encoding). Our model is trained in a self-supervised fashion by exploiting the audio and visual signals naturally aligned in videos. With the purpose of training from video data, we present a novel dataset collected for this work, with high-quality videos of ten youtubers with notable expressiveness in both the speech and visual signals.

We used [this](https://github.com/franroldans/tfm-franroldan-wav2pix) project as baseline.

<figure><img src='assets/Architecture.png'></figure>

## Dependencies

- Python 2.7
- PyTorch 

This implementation only supports running with GPUs.

## Data

Although having initially trained with 10 different identities, we can only publish the dataset for two of them, which have been the only ones in answering our request for working with their images and voice.

You can store the paths for all the images/audio frames in a pickle file with:

`scripts/generate_pickle.py`

Once you have the pickle files with all the paths for both train/test images and audio frames, include them in:

`config.yaml`

## Training

`python runtime.py`

**Arguments:**
- `lr_D` : The learning rate of the disciminator. default = `0.0004`
- `lr_G` : The learning rate of the generator. default = `0.0001`
- `vis_screen` : The visdom env name for visualization. default = `gan`
- `save_path` : Name of the directory (inside **checkpoints**) where the parameters of them odel will be stored.
- `l1_coef` : L1 loss coefficient in the generator loss fucntion. default=`50`
- `l2_coef` : Feature matching coefficient in the generator loss fucntion. default=`100`
- `pre_trained_disc` : Discriminator pre-tranined model path used for intializing training.
- `pre_trained_gen` : Generator pre-tranined model path used for intializing training.
- `batch_size` : Batch size. default= `64`
- `num_workers`: Number of dataloader workers used for fetching data. default = `8`
- `epochs` : Number of training epochs. default=`200`
- `softmax_coef`: Paramete for the scale of the loss of the classifier on top of the embedding
- `image_size` : Number of pixels per dimension. They are assumed to be squared. Two possible values: `64 | 128`. default = `64`
- `inference` : Boolean for choosing whether train or test. default = `False`

## References
If the code of this repository was useful for your research, please cite our work:

```
@inproceedings{wav2pix2019icassp,
  title={Wav2Pix: Speech-conditioned Face Generation 
          using Generative Adversarial Networks},
  author={Amanda Duarte, Francisco Roldan, Miquel Tubau, Janna Escur, 
          Santiago Pascual, Amaia Salvador, Eva Mohedano, Kevin McGuinness, 
           Jordi Torres and Xavier Giro-i-Nieto},
  booktitle={2019 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech 
            and Signal Processing (ICASSP)},
  year={2019},
  organization={IEEE}
}
```

Commit message:

Data generation pipeline included in Readme.md

Readme.md, after:

# SPEECH-CONDITIONED FACE GENERATION USING GENERATIVE ADVERSARIAL NETWORKS

## Intoduction

**Note:** This repository holds my final year and dissertation project during my time at the Image Processing Group (<em>Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya</em>). To obtain a more updated code, you can visit the official repo [here](https://github.com/imatge-upc/wav2pix).

Speech is a rich biometric signal that contains information about the identity, gender and emotional state of the speaker. In this work, we explore its potential to generate face images of a speaker by conditioning a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) with raw speech input. We propose a deep neural network that is trained from scratch in an end-to-end fashion, generating a face directly from the raw speech waveform without any additional identity information (e.g reference image or one-hot encoding). Our model is trained in a self-supervised fashion by exploiting the audio and visual signals naturally aligned in videos. With the purpose of training from video data, we present a novel dataset collected for this work, with high-quality videos of ten youtubers with notable expressiveness in both the speech and visual signals.

We used [this](https://github.com/franroldans/tfm-franroldan-wav2pix) project as baseline.

<figure><img src='assets/Architecture.png'></figure>

## Dependencies

- Python 2.7
- PyTorch 

This implementation only supports running with GPUs.

## Data

Although having initially trained with 10 different identities, we can only publish the dataset in relation to those who have answered our request for working with their images and voice.  

If you want to create your own dataset, it works as follows:  

- Run `get_data.py`. It requires the path of a .csv file with the following information: the youtube url `Channel-URL`, the name of the youtuber `Name` and the gender `Gender`. The output dataset will consist on a folder for each of the youtubers specified in the .csv file as well as two folders (video/audio) in each of them containing the full video/audio downloaded.  

- Run `preprocess_audio_frames.py` for audio preprocessing purposes.

- Remove any file whose name does not finish like `*preprocessing_wav` in each audio folder.  

- Run `face_detector.py` specifying the dataset path, a confidence threshold needed to compute the bounding boxes and the path of the haarcascade pretrained classifier (included in this repo in `/assets`)

- The useful audio snippets will be stored in `DATASET-PATH/audio/NAME-OF-THE-DOWNLOADED-VIDEO_frames`. The useful youtuber faces will be stored in `DATASET-PATH/video/NAME-OF-THE-DOWNLOADED-VIDEO_cropped_frames`  

Once the dataset is build, you can store the paths for all the images/audio frames in a pickle file with:

`scripts/generate_pickle.py`

Include both pickle files (train/test datasets) in:

`config.yaml`

## Training

`python runtime.py`

**Arguments:**
- `lr_D` : The learning rate of the disciminator. default = `0.0004`
- `lr_G` : The learning rate of the generator. default = `0.0001`
- `vis_screen` : The visdom env name for visualization. default = `gan`
- `save_path` : Name of the directory (inside **checkpoints**) where the parameters of them odel will be stored.
- `l1_coef` : L1 loss coefficient in the generator loss fucntion. default=`50`
- `l2_coef` : Feature matching coefficient in the generator loss fucntion. default=`100`
- `pre_trained_disc` : Discriminator pre-tranined model path used for intializing training.
- `pre_trained_gen` : Generator pre-tranined model path used for intializing training.
- `batch_size` : Batch size. default= `64`
- `num_workers`: Number of dataloader workers used for fetching data. default = `8`
- `epochs` : Number of training epochs. default=`200`
- `softmax_coef`: Paramete for the scale of the loss of the classifier on top of the embedding
- `image_size` : Number of pixels per dimension. They are assumed to be squared. Two possible values: `64 | 128`. default = `64`
- `inference` : Boolean for choosing whether train or test. default = `False`

## References
If the code of this repository was useful for your research, please cite our work:

```
@inproceedings{wav2pix2019icassp,
  title={Wav2Pix: Speech-conditioned Face Generation 
          using Generative Adversarial Networks},
  author={Amanda Duarte, Francisco Roldan, Miquel Tubau, Janna Escur, 
          Santiago Pascual, Amaia Salvador, Eva Mohedano, Kevin McGuinness, 
           Jordi Torres and Xavier Giro-i-Nieto},
  booktitle={2019 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech 
            and Signal Processing (ICASSP)},
  year={2019},
  organization={IEEE}
}
```
